#Teamwork

Our team SAKE has worked through the second iteration to implement the functions for the tests which were created in iteration one. Using our knowledge and tests we were able to create thoroughly verified and validated functions. The group took a customer-oriented approach by driving the creation of functions from user stories. These user stories were created under epics which were based around each key function.

To ensure we shared mutual understanding of what we would be working on and how much we had achieved, our group communicated digitally and scheduled meetings approximately three times a week. These meetings lasted from an hour to two hours and were made successful using standups. The use of standups ensured each team member knew what needed to be achieved and could receive advice or help from other members. Furthermore through using the taskboard on git and regularly committing our changes to files, we kept up to date with each others work.

When the project did not follow the plan, we adjusted our timeline and set new deadlines for when functions had to be finished. The final deadline was Saturday, when we would have our last meeting to ensure all our code was working and we could fix any issues together. The use of timeboxing made sure each team member completed their allocated work by a certain date. This meant the team could continue to move forward with changed plan.

In order to work on the same code we first branched off master into a branch called server. We then created folders, backend and frontend, and created files based off each function. The specific functions were allocated to each team member and we each made regular pulls and commits so the file remained up to date. Furthermore, our team continued to talk digitally to reiterate what we had changed in our code and clarify merge conflicts. During meetings we also used pair programming. This encouraged a discussion of ideas for the code and facilitated the sharing of knowledge about other aspects of the project. For example, if one partner had worked on setting up reusable code while the other was working on a function, when this was brought together it ensured code was not duplicated.

Moving forward to the third iteration we have identified that we need to start earlier and test more regularly as we change our code. We also aim to push more regularly to git and when doing so, write better commit messages. Finally for this next iteration we are aiming to start writing our code earlier to ensure the final stages of merging are easier and completed with less time pressure.
